README.md, before:

# Speaker Gym Funnel Tracker

This repository contains a lightweight command-line application for tracking
outreach to your Speaker's Gym community. The tool stores contacts locally in a
JSON file and helps you keep counts of how many people:

- Were contacted
- Joined the community
- Took the 7-day challenge
- Submitted their contact information for the paid 90-day program

## Getting started

1. **Install Python 3.9+** (already available in most environments).
2. Run commands from the repository root:

   ```bash
   python app.py --help
   ```

The app will create `data/funnel.json` automatically on first run.

### Running the web API for persistent contacts

If you want the browser UI (`index.html`) to persist contacts across browser sessions
and devices, run the bundled API server:

```bash
python app.py serve --port 8000
```

Then open `index.html` from this repo or host it anywhere you like. The page will
talk to `http://<server-ip>:8000/api/contacts` to load and save contacts in
`data/web_contacts.json` on the server.

### Downloading the app to your laptop

If you want to run the tracker locally, either:

- Click the green **Code** button on GitHub and choose **Download ZIP**, then unzip the folder anywhere on your machine, or
- Clone it via Git: `git clone https://github.com/<your-org>/MOUN-academy-conversion-funnel.git`

After downloading, you can open `index.html` directly in your browser for the local UI, or run the CLI with `python app.py` from the project folder.

## Commands

### Add a contact

```bash
python app.py add "Alex Lee" --notes "Met at networking event"
```

### Update a contact's progress

```bash
# Mark someone as joining, finishing the challenge, and submitting 90-day details
python app.py update "Alex Lee" --joined --challenge --contact-submitted

# Remove a flag or replace notes
python app.py update "Alex Lee" --no-challenge --notes "Rescheduled challenge for next week"
```

### List contacts (optionally filtered)

```bash
python app.py list
python app.py list --filter joined
python app.py list --filter challenge
python app.py list --filter contact_submitted
```

### View summary counts

```bash
python app.py summary
```

### Reset the data store

```bash
python app.py reset
```

## Data format

Contacts are saved in `data/funnel.json` with the following schema:

```json
{
  "contacts": [
    {
      "name": "Alex Lee",
      "contacted_at": "2024-05-23T18:05:00Z",
      "joined": true,
      "challenge": true,
      "contact_submitted": false,
      "notes": "Met at networking event"
    }
  ]
}
```

You can safely edit this file manually if you need to make bulk changes.

Commit message:

Add Excel import and export for contacts

README.md, after:

# Speaker Gym Funnel Tracker

This repository contains a lightweight command-line application for tracking
outreach to your Speaker's Gym community. The tool stores contacts locally in a
JSON file and helps you keep counts of how many people:

- Were contacted
- Joined the community
- Took the 7-day challenge
- Submitted their contact information for the paid 90-day program

## Getting started

1. **Install Python 3.9+** (already available in most environments).
2. Run commands from the repository root:

   ```bash
   python app.py --help
   ```

The app will create `data/funnel.json` automatically on first run.

### Running the web API for persistent contacts

If you want the browser UI (`index.html`) to persist contacts across browser sessions
and devices, run the bundled API server:

```bash
python app.py serve --port 8000
```

Then open `index.html` from this repo or host it anywhere you like. The page will
talk to `http://<server-ip>:8000/api/contacts` to load and save contacts in
`data/web_contacts.json` on the server.

> The API uses [openpyxl](https://openpyxl.readthedocs.io/) for Excel import/export.
> Install it with `pip install openpyxl` in the same environment where you run
> `app.py`.

#### Importing/exporting contacts in Excel

- **Export**: Click **Export to Excel** in the web UI or GET `/api/contacts/export`
  to download `contacts.xlsx`.
- **Import**: Click **Import from Excel** in the web UI and select an `.xlsx` file,
  or POST an Excel file to `/api/contacts/import` to replace the stored contacts.
  The sheet must include these headers in the first row: `id`, `name`, `notes`,
  `joinedCommunity`, `tookChallenge`, `submittedPaid`, `customer`, `dateAdded`.

### Downloading the app to your laptop

If you want to run the tracker locally, either:

- Click the green **Code** button on GitHub and choose **Download ZIP**, then unzip the folder anywhere on your machine, or
- Clone it via Git: `git clone https://github.com/<your-org>/MOUN-academy-conversion-funnel.git`

After downloading, you can open `index.html` directly in your browser for the local UI, or run the CLI with `python app.py` from the project folder.

## Commands

### Add a contact

```bash
python app.py add "Alex Lee" --notes "Met at networking event"
```

### Update a contact's progress

```bash
# Mark someone as joining, finishing the challenge, and submitting 90-day details
python app.py update "Alex Lee" --joined --challenge --contact-submitted

# Remove a flag or replace notes
python app.py update "Alex Lee" --no-challenge --notes "Rescheduled challenge for next week"
```

### List contacts (optionally filtered)

```bash
python app.py list
python app.py list --filter joined
python app.py list --filter challenge
python app.py list --filter contact_submitted
```

### View summary counts

```bash
python app.py summary
```

### Reset the data store

```bash
python app.py reset
```

## Data format

Contacts are saved in `data/funnel.json` with the following schema:

```json
{
  "contacts": [
    {
      "name": "Alex Lee",
      "contacted_at": "2024-05-23T18:05:00Z",
      "joined": true,
      "challenge": true,
      "contact_submitted": false,
      "notes": "Met at networking event"
    }
  ]
}
```

You can safely edit this file manually if you need to make bulk changes.
